# Info on NDBC stations

Station 44022 - Execution Rocks 
Owned and maintained by University of Connecticut, Department of Marine Sciences
Moored Buoy
40.883 N 73.728 W (40째53'0" N 73째43'42" W)

Site elevation: sea level
Air temp height: 3 m above site elevation
Anemometer height: 3.5 m above site elevation
Sea temp depth: 1 m below water line
Water depth: 22.5 m



Station 44040 - Western Long Island Sound
Owned and maintained by University of Connecticut, Department of Marine Sciences
Moored Buoy
40.956 N 73.580 W (40째57'21" N 73째34'48" W)

Site elevation: sea level
Air temp height: 3 m above site elevation
Anemometer height: 3.5 m above site elevation
Sea temp depth: 1 m below water line
Water depth: 18.3 m


From NDBC website:
https://www.ndbc.noaa.gov/faq/measdes.shtml

Units: Station pages display the current hour's measurements in Imperial units by default, but can be changed by the viewer to metric units. When accessing Real Time and Historical data files, the measurements are generally in metric units, as described below, and cannot be changed.

Time: Station pages show current observations in station local time by default, but can be changed by the viewer to UTC (formerly GMT). Both Realtime and Historical files show times in UTC only. See the Acquisition Time help topic for a more detailed description of observation times. For more information on the times in the files, see the changes page.

Station ID: Five-digit WMO Station Identifier, used since 1976. ID's can be reassigned to future deployments within the same 1 degree square.

Formats: Data are classified according to the following groups. The header lines are shown at the beginning of group. Note that in the Realtime files, non-data lines begin with "#". Such lines should be treated as comment lines.

Standard Meteorological Data
#YY  MM DD hh mm WDIR WSPD GST  WVHT   DPD   APD MWD   PRES  ATMP  WTMP  DEWP  VIS PTDY  TIDE
#yr  mo dy hr mn degT m/s  m/s     m   sec   sec degT   hPa  degC  degC  degC  nmi  hPa    ft
2014 09 11 16 50 120  5.0  6.0   0.6     6   4.2 134 1016.5  29.3  30.5  24.4   MM +0.3    MM

WDIR
Wind direction (the direction the wind is coming from in degrees clockwise from true N) during the same period used for WSPD. See Wind Averaging Methods
WSPD
Wind speed (m/s) averaged over an eight-minute period for buoys and a two-minute period for land stations. Reported Hourly. See Wind Averaging Methods.
GST
Peak 5 or 8 second gust speed (m/s) measured during the eight-minute or two-minute period. The 5 or 8 second period can be determined by payload, See the Sensor Reporting, Sampling, and Accuracy section.
WVHT
Significant wave height (meters) is calculated as the average of the highest one-third of all of the wave heights during the 20-minute sampling period. See the Wave Measurements section.
DPD
Dominant wave period (seconds) is the period with the maximum wave energy. See the Wave Measurements section.
APD
Average wave period (seconds) of all waves during the 20-minute period. See the Wave Measurements section.
MWD
The direction from which the waves at the dominant period (DPD) are coming. The units are degrees from true North, increasing clockwise, with North as 0 (zero) degrees and East as 90 degrees. See the Wave Measurements section.
PRES
Sea level pressure (hPa). For C-MAN sites and Great Lakes buoys, the recorded pressure is reduced to sea level using the method described in NWS Technical Procedures Bulletin 291 (11/14/80). ( labeled BAR in Historical files)
ATMP
Air temperature (Celsius). For sensor heights on buoys, see Hull Descriptions. For sensor heights at C-MAN stations, see C-MAN Sensor Locations
WTMP
Sea surface temperature (Celsius). For buoys the depth is referenced to the hull's waterline. For fixed platforms it varies with tide, but is referenced to, or near Mean Lower Low Water (MLLW).
DEWP
Dewpoint temperature taken at the same height as the air temperature measurement.
VIS
Station visibility (nautical miles). Note that buoy stations are limited to reports from 0 to 1.6 nmi.
PTDY
Pressure Tendency is the direction (plus or minus) and the amount of pressure change (hPa)for a three hour period ending at the time of observation. (not in Historical files)
TIDE
The water level in feet above or below Mean Lower Low Water (MLLW).